---
title: Flexbox
date: 2024-07-20
layout: post
published: true
---

> **Flexbox**: A layout method for arranging items in rows or columns. Items will either shrink or expand (hence the "flex"- ibility part of the name).

Flexbox is built-in to CSS, so there's no need to download any external CSS resources.

To start using it:

```css
element {
  display: flex;
}
``` 

`justify-content` aligns items **horizontally** and accepts the following properties:
 
- `flex-start`: start of the container
- `flex-end`: end of the container
- `center`: center of the container
- `space-between`: items display with equal spacing *between* them
- `space-around`: items display with equal spacing *around* them

`align-items` aligns items **vertically** and accepts the following properties:

- `flex-start`: top of the container
- `flex-end`: bottom of the container
- `center`: vertical center of the container
- `baseline`: baseline of the container
- `stretch`: stretched items to fit the container

To center an element both horizontally and vertically we could do:

```css
element {
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
  align-items: center;
}
```

The `flex-direction` CSS property defines the **direction** of the items placed in the container element. It accepts the following values:

- `row`: Items are placed the same as the text direction
- `row-reverse`: Items are placed opposite to the text direction
- `column`: Items are placed top to bottom
- `column-reverse`: Items are placed bottom to top

The `flex-wrap` property accepts the following values:

- `nowrap`: Every item is fit to a single line
- `wrap`: Items wrap around to additional lines
- `wrap-reverse`: Items wrap around to additional lines in reverse

The two properties `flex-direction` and `flex-wrap` are used so often together that the shorthand property `flex-flow` was created to combine them. This shorthand property accepts the value of the two properties separated by a space.

```css
element {
  display: flex;
  flex-flow: column wrap;
}
```

`align-content`: Aligns the lines in a flex container when there is extra space on the cross-axis (normally horizontally).

`flex-start`: Lines are packed at the top of the container.

`flex-end`: Lines are packed at the bottom of the container.

`center`: Lines are packed at the vertical center of the container.

`space-between`: Lines display with equal spacing between them.

`space-around`: Lines display with equal spacing around them.

`stretch`: Lines are stretched to fit the container.

To practice `display: flex` and the four properties described above, try [Flexbox Froggy game](https://flexboxfroggy.com/).

---

## Individual Item Properties

- `order`: default value is 0. We can reorder items using positive or negative integer values.

- `align-self`: Accepts the same values as `align-items` for the specific element.



